Peroxide is a general turing machine framework designed specifically for work on BB(6). It is highly optimized for 2-symbol turing machines.

The idea of Peroxide is to be a decider. I don't know if this decider is either original or feasible, but I will try anyways. I'm calling this technique Exhaustive Reachability (ERA). It consists of running the turing machine in reverse, creating a tree of all possible local configurations that would lead to it halting, and exhaustively proving them unreachable. 
For example, there exists a certain turing machine that I'm technically not supposed to name right not, but it's nonhalting because the halt condition can only occur when the head is left of a very specific pattern. It is provable that this pattern cannot be passed through from the right without altering it, nor can it be formed from the left. Thus, that family of configurations where the head is left of that pattern is unreachable, which means that it must be nonhalting.

Given some turing machine with one and only one halt state, Peroxide will first store the state S where the halt state is in, and write whichever symbol it halts on to a temporary tape. If the machine halts when the machine reads a 0 in state C, the machine will remember that it halts in state C and write that zero to a temporary tape. This tape is then used to create a virtual configuration C_0 where the head is in state S on that cell, such that it will halt on the next step. Then, Peroxide considers all transitions that lead to state S. If no such transition exists, then C_0 is unreachable and the machine is unhalting. Otherwise, there will be some integer n_1 transitions that lead to configuration C_0. Hence, for each transition, there is a configuration C_1_n that halts in 2 steps. This pattern is repeated to create a configuration tree. Of course, it is more than likely that this tree would be of infinite size, which is completely impractical for deciding. There are multiple patterns that can prune a configuration tree
1. Cycling: If the only way to reach a state results in a cycle, it is trivially easy to prove that it is unreachable by induction under certain conditions. This condition was used to solve one specific BB(6) holdout
2. Dead Ends: if there exists no transition to a state, then it is unreachable
3. Breaking: if the end condition assumes that a specific local configuration exists, then it must remain. Being, it should not be broken by any transition, and if it isn't repaired, then the machine will not halt. In fact, if for the last n steps that local configuration is unbroken, step n+1 cannot under any circumstances break the configuration. This case was instrumental for eliminating a large portion of the configuration tree for a specific BB(6) holdout.
4. Relative Location: In the ending configurations, the head must either be to the left of, to the right of, or somewhere in the middle of some set configuration. Sometimes, it is provable that there is no way the head can appear in that location relative to the configuration. For example, moving the head to that position could break the configuration, or the head could bounce off. One must also consider the fact that the head may not be able to create that configuration AND remain in that position.
There are probably a lot more cases than this, but this these three confitions is sufficient to solve at least a few holdouts. If it is shown that every node of a configuration tree is unreachable, then the machine is nonhalting.

These are the four ways I thought of pruning the configuration tree. I will get on to formalizing this and coding it shortly. I think that these can be established as a set of lemmas.


# Peroxide Exhaustive Reachability Analysis Proposal #2:
We can define a local configuration called a halting signature H, where H deterministically proceeds to the halt state in a constant number of steps, and the turing machine M halts. We can measure the number of steps it takes for any halting signature H to halt. The longer it takes for a halting signature to halt, the more likely it is that our next technique will work on it. We find a halting signature by backtracking from the halt state and constructing a tree of possible configurations. We use pruning techniques, like looking for collisions, contradictions, or cycles to eliminate families of halting signatures. It is optimal to have as few as possible.
We spent a lot of theory trying to construct a reduced configuration tree, but what if we've been looking at it wrong the whole time? Pruning condition 4 could theoretically be used as a focal point for this entire decider. We use our extended backwards reasoning with a hybrid of multiple methods to construct our halting signature, and see how formation and traversal interact with it.
All four lemmas will still be useful, but we will focus on the fourth one to actually prove the machine. For a machine to reach its halting signature, it must both have the correct cell configuration and the correct relative head position. TOtherwise, that configuration will not deterministically lead to halting and therefore not be considered a halting signature. Given that the cell configuration is correct, there are two ways that the head's relative position to that configuration can be correct: if either it finished forming the halting signature from its correct relative position, or it formed it from another position and traversed across it. If in both cases, it is impossible to position the head correctly without invalidating the halting signature, then the machine is nonhalting.
backtrack to find
Here is the method of peroxide:
1. An Accelerated Backwards Reasoning search is performed to a limited depth. There are a few inductive reductions that let us skip steps and perform stronger than basic BR deciders. However, the goal with this phase is not to decide the machine, but to decide which halting signatures will be used. A reduced configuration tree is formed by this algorithm.
2. Starting from the root of the RCT, an optimal halting signature is found, probably with brute force. Multiple different sets of halting signatures may be tested if some don't work.
3. With the halting signatures, jump backwards in time to simulate the formation of the halting signature. Test for traversability and constructability, being whether or not the head can end up in the correct relative position after formation without invalidating H.
4. If a halting signature is proven unreachable by step three, all of its children and descendants are killed. Then, the next unverified halting signature is checked by step three. If the decider is unable to prove the halting signature unreachable, it then performs step three on each of its children.
5. Note that if a halting signature's children are all proven unreachable, then it too is unreachable. Thus, if the root halting signature's children are all unreachable, then the machine is nonhalting. The decider halts when either it succeeds in proving the machine nonhalting, or runs out of resources or time.

Proposal 3?
A halting signature H of order n is any local tape of a turing machine that halts in n steps. Starting from the halt state, we can define a set of first order halting signatures. We see what turing machine transitions may form each signature, and use that to establish a set of children signatures of order 2, which funnel down to order 1 signatures. COntinuing this forms what we will call a configuration tree. Now, there are contradictory transitions that may produce a child signature, but be invalid. These contradictions are detected because they destroy the local tape pattern require for halting. We can prune these off. This is ultimately a very basic form of backwards reasoning. We will need another tool we call head-position invariance
A halting signature needs two things to be exactly right: where and what the head is (state and relative position), and that the local tape configuration is perfect. Given that the tape configuration is correct, there are two ways that the head's relative position to that configuration can be correct: if either it finished forming the halting signature from its correct relative position, or it formed it from another position and traversed across it. If in both cases, it is impossible to position the head correctly without invalidating the halting signature, then the machine is nonhalting.
